Knowing how to work with
the string data in
security is important.
For example, you might
find yourself working with
usernames to find patterns
in login information.
We're going to revisit
the string data type and learn
how to work with it in Python.
First, let's have a quick
refresher on the strings.
We defined the string data as
data consisting of an ordered
sequence of characters.
In Python, strings are
written in between
quotation marks.
It's okay to use either double
or single quotation marks,
but in this course, we've been
using double quotation marks.
As examples, we have
the strings "Hello",
"123", and "Number 1!"
We also previously
covered variables.
Here, the variable my_string
is currently storing
the string "security".
You can also create a string
from another data type,
such as an integer or a float.
To do that, we need to introduce
a new built-in function,
the string function.
The string function
is a function that
converts the input
object into a string.
Converting objects to
strings allows us to
perform tasks that are
only possible for strings.
For example, we might
convert an integer into
a string to remove elements
from it or to re-order it.
Both are difficult for
an integer data type.
Let's practice converting
an integer to a string.
We'll apply the string
function to the integer 123.
Now, the variable new_string
contains a string of
three characters:
1, 2, and 3.
Let's print its type to check.
We'll run it. Perfect, it tells
us that we now have a string!
Awesome!
So far,
we know different ways to
create and store a string.
Now, let's explore how to
perform some basic
string operations.
Our first example is
the length function.
The length function
is a function that
returns the number of
elements in an object.
Using it on a string tells
us how many characters
the string has.
Earlier in the program,
we learned that
IP addresses have
two versions, IPv4 or IPv6.
IPv4 addresses have a
maximum of 15 characters.
So a security
professional might use
the length function to check
if an IPv4 address is valid.
If its length is greater
than 15 characters,
then we'd know that it's
an invalid IPv4 address.
Let's use this function to print
the length of the string "Hello"
We'll nest the length function
within the print
function because we
want to first calculate
the length of
this string and then
print it to the screen.
Okay, let's run this and check out
how many characters
Python counts.
The output is 5,
one for each letter
in the word Hello.
We can also use the addition
operator on the strings.
This is called string
concatenation.
The string concatenation is
the process of joining
two strings together.
For example, we can add
the strings "Hello"
and "world" together.
To concatenate strings, we
can use the + symbol.
After we run it,
we get "Helloworld" with
no spaces in between
the two strings.
It's important to note that
some operators don't
work for strings.
For example, you cannot use
a minus sign to subtract
the two strings.
Finally, we're going to
talk about string methods.
A method is a function
that belongs to a
specific data type.
So, using a string method
on another data type,
like an integer,
would cause an error.
Unlike other functions, methods
appear after the string.
Two common string methods are
the upper and the lower methods.
The upper method
returns a copy of
the string in all
uppercase letters.
Let's apply the upper
method to the string "Hello"
We'll place this inside of
a print function to
output it to the screen.
Let's focus on the unique
syntax of methods.
After our string "Hello",
we place a period or dot,
and then specify the
method we want to use.
Here, that's upper()
Okay, now we're ready to run this.
HELLO is printed to the screen
in all uppercase letters.
Similarly, the lower
method returns
a copy of the string in
all lowercase letters.
Let's apply the lower
method on the "Hello" string.
Remember that we need to put
the string and the method
inside of a print function
to output the results.
And now, we have the string
printed in all
lowercase letters.
Coming up, we're going to
learn a lot more about strings,
like indexing and
splitting strings.
I'm looking forward
to meeting you there!